# Welcome: Data Exploration Tool


This dashboard visualizes the biogeochemical, physical, and aquacultural
productivity data of the Nomilo fishpond, operated by [Kauaʻi Sea Farm
(KSF)](https://kauaiseafarm.com/), to monitor its ecosystem and make
informed management decisions aimed at restoring the fishpond and
improving aquacultural productivity amid climate change. This fieldwork
was performed as part of Research Question 2 of the Master thesis
research.

In the interactive elements you can select parameters for each datasets.
Positioning various parameters side-by-side can help visualize possible
trends. For example, observe how increase of large phytoplankton count
(Water Samples Data) only occurs after a change in wind direction
(Weather Data). Explore yourself or read on about the results of the
fieldwork below.

#### Datasets

1.  Water Sampling
2.  Water Profiles
3.  Clam Growth
4.  Oyster Growth
5.  Weather Data
6.  KSF Data

These data are simulated at four locations on the fishpond and at depths
ranging between 0.5m and 7.5m. The locations involve: (1) Back Buoy, (2)
Middle Buoy, (3) Production Dock, and (4) Auwai.

#### Summary of Key Insights from the Nomilo Fishpond Case Study

**Problem Identified**: Biogeochemical imbalances in water quality
significantly hinder aquacultural productivity and overall ecosystem
health in Hawaiian fishponds. <br><br> **Research Focus**: Investigate
changes in biogeochemical and physical dynamics over time and space, and
their effects on aquaculture growth and harvest. <br><br> **Key
Findings**: <br> - Wind Shifts: A shift from north/northeast to western
winds enhanced mixing dynamics in Nomilo fishpond, promoting water
turnover. <br> - Deep-Water Dynamics: Benthic and deep-water conditions,
along with groundwater levels, may be key in determining aquacultural
productivity by pushing nutrients from deep sediments into the water
column. <br> - Winter Productivity Drivers: Benthic and deep-water
conditions, influenced by groundwater pushing nutrients from the anoxic
7.5m sediment into the water-column, significantly impact aquacultural
productivity during winter. <br> - Aquaculture Benefits: Reversed mixing
dynamics led to improved growth and survival rates of clams and oysters,
linked to the increased availability of phytoplankton. <br><br>
**Implication**: Demonstrates the critical link between environmental
conditions and aquacultural productivity, underscoring the necessity for
more comprehensive studies on fishpond ecosystems.

<center>
<img src="www/logos/uhm-logo.png" alt="" align="center" width="200">
<br><br>
<img src="www/logos/wur-logo.png" alt="" align="center" width="200">
<br><br>
<img src="www/logos/pac-risa-logo.png" alt="" align="center" width="200">
<br><br>
<img src="www/logos/ksf-logo.png" alt="" align="center" width="200">
<br><br>
</center>

**Created By**: Alemarie Ceria <br> **Date Created:** 05/05/2024 <br>
**Last Updated**: 05/11/2024

*© 2024 Oleson Lab, University of Hawaii at Manoa*
